---
title: Genderal protection
---

Harikarhas implemented a wide range of protection projects since 2017, targeting populations of Syrian and non-Syrian refugees and asylum seekers, internally displaced persons (IDPs), and returnees. These projects have aimed at promoting protection including but not limited to, the improvement of access to legal assistance, registration, psychosocial support, education, and other essential basic services, while also promoting peaceful coexistence between refugees, IDPs, and host communities.

Harikar dedicated its efforts to enhancing access to legal assistance and remedies, elevating the quality of registration and profiling for refugees and IDPs, and fostering peaceful coexistence between refugees, IDPs, and the host communities. Additionally, Harikar provided crucial psychosocial support and GBV prevention and response services in camps and urban areas, and offered free legal and social guidance, with a special focus on vulnerable groups such as women and children. Harikar was passionate about raising awareness regarding fundamental human rights, child protection, women's rights, issues related to sexual and gender-based violence (S/GBV), legal matters, and health and hygiene education within the displaced communities. Furthermore, Harikar empowered IDP and refugee youth, men, and women through skill development, civic education, and sports activities, and worked tirelessly to improve access to quality education for children and adolescents. The organization's commitment extended to safeguarding the physical and mental well-being of those with acute needs due to conflict, and they strived to address critical living standard issues by expanding access to essential services. Harikar also played a crucial role in strengthening access to specialized protection services for returnees and IDPs in Ninawa and Duhok governorates.

In light of the developmental phase, and even progressing beyond, Harikar, since the beginning of 2023, in collaboration with UNHCR, is implementing an initiative that aims at enabling the targeted communities including Syrian and non-Syrian refugees and asylum seekers and IDPs, managing, representing, and leading themselves. At the same time, the initiative is advancing plans to enhance the communication between communities and service providers and support community-led protection response and social cohesion initiatives.

Harikar's protection projects have made a significant impact on the lives of refugees, IDPs, returnees and the host communities. By providing essential services and promoting peaceful coexistence, Harikar is helping to build a better future for all.
